cdc_budget_txt/fy-2006-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:The VFC program is CDC's largest public/private partnership. The VFC program is a state-operated, federal entitlement program that removed vaccine cost as a barrier to immunization for our neediest children. Based on the total doses of routinely recommended pediatric vaccines distributed in the U.S., the VFC program served about 42 percent of the childhood population in 2003. Over 42,000 provider sites are enrolled in the VFC program and 30,000 of these are private provider sites. The VFC program provides public-purchased vaccine to all enrolled providers who agree to vaccinate VFC eligible children aged birth through 18 years of age.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2018-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:Prescription Drug Overdose (PDO) Prevention Activity: The Committee commends CDC for its leadership on combatting prescription and opioid drug overdoses. The Committee provides an increase and expects the Director to implement these activities based on population-adjusted burden of disease criteria, including mortality data (age adjusted rate), as significant criteria when distributing funds for the State PDO Prevention activities. The Committee assumes these funds will be distributed via a competitive mechanism and not merely a mathematical formula or standard allocation to each State. Further, the Committee strongly encourages CDC to support local prevention activity to determine the effectiveness of naltrexone in treating heroin and prescription drug abuse and reducing diversion of buprenorphine for illicit purposes. (Page 49) CDC Response: CDC will provide a response to Congress for this Significant Item in a supplemental package. National Vital Statistics System (NVSS): The Committee continues support for the NVSS which provides data on births, deaths, and fetal deaths. The Committee is aware most States now or will soon have operational electronic birth and death registration systems, an essential tool in monitoring public health and fighting waste, fraud, and abuse in Federal entitlement programs. The Committee requests CDC ensure the modernization of the CDC system to ensure interoperability with state systems. (Page 49-50) CDC Response: CDC will provide a response to Congress for this Significant Item in a supplemental package. Sepsis: The Committee encourages CDC to significantly and materially increase its public awareness, outreach, and education efforts on sepsis, including health provider outreach and other related activities to improve diagnosis and treatment of sepsis. (Page 50) CDC Response: Please see CDC's FY 2018 budget narrative for response to this Significant Item. Global Health Strategy: The Committee requests an update on how CDC, the Food and Drug Administration, and NIH jointly coordinate global health research activities with specific measurable metrics used to track the progress toward agreed upon global health goals. (Page 51) CDC Response: CDC will provide a response to Congress for this Significant Item in a supplemental package. Global Public Health: The Committee requests a separate detailed operating plan for all international activities funded through all CDC programs be included in the fiscal year 2018 budget request and future budget requests. (Page 51) CDC Response: CDC will provide a response to Congress for this Significant Item in a Report to Congress.
