cdc_budget_txt/fy-2006-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:Syphilis rates in women have declined with the implementation of the Syphilis Elimination Plan (from 4.0/100,000 in 1999 to 1.8/100,000 in 2003). CDC will continue to strive to decrease syphilis cases among women, both to protect the health of women and to prevent congenital syphilis. Untreated early syphilis during pregnancy results in perinatal death in up to 40% of cases, and, if acquired during the four years preceding pregnancy, may lead to infection of the fetus in over 70% of cases. The source for this data is the STD Morbidity Surveillance System, CDC.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2006-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:When a woman has a syphilis infection during pregnancy, she may transmit the infection to the fetus in utero. This may result in fetal death or an infant born with physical and mental developmental disabilities. Most cases of congenital syphilis are easily preventable if women are screened for syphilis and treated early during prenatal care. The source for this data is the STD Morbidity Surveillance System, CDC.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2007-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:Insufficient syphilis serologic testing and treatment of women for syphilis during pregnancy remains the major reason that congenital syphilis persists in the U.S. When a woman has a syphilis infection during pregnancy, she may transmit the infection to the fetus in utero. This may result in fetal death or an infant born with physical and mental developmental disabilities. Most cases of congenital syphilis are easily preventable if women are screened for syphilis and treated early during prenatal care. Each positive test in a child is considered a medical emergency with immediate health services follow-up. The absence of testing is often related to complete lack of, or late initiation of prenatal care. Between 2003 and 2004, the overall rate of congenital syphilis decreased 17.8 percent in the U.S., from 10.7 to 8.8 cases per 100,000 live births.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2007-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:Syphilis rates in women have declined with the implementation of the Syphilis Elimination Plan (from 2.0/100,000 in 1999 to 0.8/100,000 in 2004). CDC will continue to strive to decrease syphilis cases among women, both to protect the health of women and to prevent congenital syphilis. Untreated early syphilis during pregnancy results in perinatal death in up to 40 percent of cases, and, if acquired during the four years preceding pregnancy, may lead to infection of the fetus in over 70 percent of cases. The FY 2007 target reflects what is achievable given current trends.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2007-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:When a woman has a syphilis infection during pregnancy, she may transmit the infection to the fetus in utero. This often results in fetal death or an infant born with physical and mental developmental disabilities. Most cases of congenital syphilis are easily preventable if women are screened for syphilis and treated early during prenatal care. The FY 2007 target reflects what is achievable given current trends.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2008-cdc-congressional-justification-part-1.pdf.txt:Insufficient syphilis serologic testing and treatment of women for syphilis during pregnancy remains the major reason congenital syphilis persists in the U.S. When a woman has a syphilis infection during pregnancy, she may transmit the infection to the fetus in utero. This may result in fetal death or an infant born with physical and mental developmental disabilities. Most cases of congenital syphilis are easily preventable if women are screened for syphilis and treated early during prenatal care. Each positive test in a child is considered a medical emergency with immediate health services follow-up. The absence of testing is often related to complete lack of, or late initiation of, prenatal care. Between 2004 and 2005, the overall rate of congenital syphilis decreased 12.1 percent in the U.S., from 9.1 to 8.0 cases per 100,000 live births.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2008-cdc-congressional-justification-part-1.pdf.txt:Syphilis rates in women declined with the implementation of the Syphilis Elimination Plan (from 2.0/100,000 in 1999 to 0.9/100,000 in 2005). CDC will continue to strive to decrease syphilis cases among women, both to protect the health of women and to prevent congenital syphilis. Untreated early syphilis during pregnancy results in perinatal death in up to 40 percent of cases, and, if acquired during the four years preceding pregnancy, may lead to infection of the fetus in over 70 percent of cases. The FY 2008 target reflects what is achievable given current trends.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2008-cdc-congressional-justification-part-1.pdf.txt:When a woman has a syphilis infection during pregnancy, she may transmit the infection to the fetus in utero. This often results in fetal death or an infant born with physical and mental developmental disabilities. Most cases of congenital syphilis are easily preventable if women are screened for syphilis and treated early during prenatal care. The FY 2008 target reflects what is achievable given current trends.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2008-cdc-congressional-justification-part-2.pdf.txt:Insufficient syphilis serologic testing and treatment of women for syphilis during pregnancy remains the major reason congenital syphilis persists in the U.S. When a woman has a syphilis infection during pregnancy, she may transmit the infection to the fetus in utero. This may result in fetal death or an infant born with physical and mental developmental disabilities. Most cases of congenital syphilis are easily preventable if women are screened for syphilis and treated early during prenatal care. Each positive test in a child is considered a medical emergency with immediate health services follow-up. The absence of testing is often related to complete lack of, or late initiation of, prenatal care. Between 2004 and 2005, the overall rate of congenital syphilis decreased 12.1 percent in the U.S., from 9.1 to 8.0 cases per 100,000 live births.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2008-cdc-congressional-justification-part-2.pdf.txt:Syphilis rates in women declined with the implementation of the Syphilis Elimination Plan (from 2.0/100,000 in 1999 to 0.9/100,000 in 2005). CDC will continue to strive to decrease syphilis cases among women, both to protect the health of women and to prevent congenital syphilis. Untreated early syphilis during pregnancy results in perinatal death in up to 40 percent of cases, and, if acquired during the four years preceding pregnancy, may lead to infection of the fetus in over 70 percent of cases. The FY 2008 target reflects what is achievable given current trends.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2008-cdc-congressional-justification-part-2.pdf.txt:When a woman has a syphilis infection during pregnancy, she may transmit the infection to the fetus in utero. This often results in fetal death or an infant born with physical and mental developmental disabilities. Most cases of congenital syphilis are easily preventable if women are screened for syphilis and treated early during prenatal care. The FY 2008 target reflects what is achievable given current trends.
cdc_budget_txt/fy-2018-cdc-congressional-justification.pdf.txt:The United States is increasingly vulnerable to vector-borne disease threats occurring within and outside our borders. Vector-borne diseases transmitted by ticks, mosquitoes, fleas, and other insects, account for 17 percent of the estimated global burden of all infectious diseases. The United States has seen an increase in the number and spread of vector-borne diseases. In the United States, the most common vector-borne diseases causing regular outbreaks include mosquito-borne West Nile and dengue viruses; tickborne Lyme disease and Rocky Mountain spotted fever; and flea-borne plague. More vector-borne diseases continue to be discovered; in the last decade alone, CDC has discovered five new tickborne pathogens in the United States. The emergence and spread of the Zika virus is the latest and most notable viral vector-borne threat. Zika virus has spread to 64 countries and territories and is the only mosquito-borne arbovirus known to be sexually transmitted or to cause microcephaly and other associated severe birth defects in fetuses. As of March 20, 2017, over 4,700 pregnant women living in the United States and its territories have evidence of being infected with Zika virus. The primary vectors of Zika, Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes, are widespread throughout the United States and its territories and have been found in an increasing number of locations in the last decade. They are also the primary vectors for the other important vector-borne viruses worldwide. Both species also transmit dengue and chikungunya. Aedes aegypti also transmits yellow fever. CDC's vector-borne diseases program is the focal point of our nation's capacity to detect, control, and prevent bacterial, rickettsial, and viral pathogens transmitted by ticks and insects. CDC's vector-borne scientists have deep expertise in entomology, microbiology, and public health that does not exist elsewhere. CDC experts work with and support state and local health departments directly during outbreak investigations; provide tools for outbreak preparedness and response; identify novel repellents and other prevention tools; and identify, improve, and deploy diagnostic tools and tests. CDC's core vector-borne disease activities in FY 2016-2017 included the following activities. Developing and supporting laboratory capacity to rapidly diagnose vector-borne diseases CDC supports domestic and international diagnostic laboratories by developing testing guidelines, distributing reagents and supplies, and performing confirmatory testing for difficult or complex cases. In addition, CDC develops new diagnostic methods to improve testing speed, accuracy, and reliability and provides training to domestic and international partners. For example, during the Zika response:
